so yesterday
there was a post on our subreddit
about how there's a misogyny problem in
our community
and so i really appreciate the
the post it was um the most upvoted post
for you know a while uh there's some
upvoted posts like if you look
historically the most upvoted posts are
memes
the most upvoted substantial post we've
ever had on our subreddit i think was
this post
and
in it people were sort of saying like
misogyny is a problem in the community
and dr k should use his platform to
address it
and then i got kind of confused because
i was like i don't know what that means
i don't know people i hear this a lot
like people toss around this phrase use
your platform to address the problem and
literally like i don't know what that
means like i don't know how to do that
do i just show up here and say misogyny
is bad y'all should stop doing it is
that what people are looking for
so i asked the question and thankfully i
got some awesome answers so i was like i
think they figured out what my username
is so i think they knew it was me
but i you know i don't identify myself
but i was just like what would that
practically look like like what what
would that mean
using the like i don't know how to do
that
and so i got some really awesome answers
and i really appreciate everyone who
posted i read the entire thread in
basically every comment
uh so the first thing that i'm gonna do
is share a little bit about
you know what we do and how we approach
misogyny and then
i'm gonna
change gears a little bit so the first
thing is that you know we try to address
misogyny
through
things like we have like you know women
in gaming streams and stuff like that
we interview a lot of female streamers
who will talk about their experiences
for example or just women in our
community who talk about their
experiences
so that's one way that we address it um
so i you know i thought we were doing
okay there
um the other thing is that i i tend to
not
sometimes address it directly because
i think that the real way to address
misogyny is by like addressing the human
being underneath and understanding where
it comes from and sort of helping people
so for example shunya meditations i
think are actually my way of addressing
misogyny because the more that you
practice shunya meditation the less
misogynistic or misandristic you will
become
so i think there's a lot of stuff that i
try to do
and there was also like another part of
me that was kind of confused because you
know i was sort of thinking like if this
is a misogynistic community like why is
this like one of the most upvoted posts
of all time
right so it's kind of interesting
because i was like looking at that and i
was like oh it's people are actually
responding really well and i was
imagining if someone had posted that in
the red pill subreddit for example like
that would get down voted into oblivion
and then i also kind of thought about it
a little bit more and i was like but
wait it's the most upvoted post so that
means that everyone does think it's a
problem so that was like kind of
confusing for me so i tend to first of
all address things somewhat indirectly
and the reason for that is um
i just think it's more effective
so this is where i get concerned about
things like virtue signaling so if i
show up on stream and i say misogyny is
bad
i think that the people who suffer from
being on the receiving end will really
appreciate that and they'll be like dr k
is using his platform to address
misogyny
but i don't know that the person who is
misogynistic will actually change so
this is where i kind of struggle a
little bit with like
is fixing misogyny validating the
victims of it or is it like trying to
change the minds of the perpetrators
and so that's sort of why we've done
what we've done we try to raise
awareness of it and things like that and
i'm directly addressing it now
so this is what i'm going to say to my
strategy
right and so this is like this is my
first thing to say to people who are not
just misogynist because i don't know if
you identify as a misogynist
so here i am
and i have a strategy right like i like
we have women in gaming like what's your
experience like we interview female
streamers and hey look at all this logic
that i'm using i'm saying it's the most
upvoted post
right our community is like they
appreciate this if it was truly a
misogynistic community they would
downvote into oblivion
so there's a lot of like beliefs that i
have about how to address the problem
there are a lot of things that i do to
try to address the problem
and despite all of my efforts and
despite all of my logic and despite all
of my idea that i think i'm doing a
decent job
someone out there is telling me that hey
this is a problem
so here's the first thing
if you think you're doing a good job at
something and someone tells you hey
this is a problem you should start by
listening
so this is kind of weird but like in my
experience
the more that you think you know about
something and the more
surprised you are by someone's opinion
you shouldn't double down on what you
believe you should actually listen to
that person even more
so if you saw that post and you thought
sort of like i did that like oh look at
how much this is getting upvoted it must
not be a problem
you have to understand that like the
more logic that you have to discount
their perspective the more
catastrophically incorrect you are
right because they're not stupid i mean
you can assume that other people around
you are stupid but despite every all of
the reasons why i think we're doing a
good job of addressing misogyny the fact
that there is a group of people who
strongly feel this way means that
there's a blind spot so if you have a
lot of logic about something and people
are saying things that are contrary to
that that is actually an indication that
there's a blind spot
so here's what i'm gonna do because
here's my way of trying to address the
blind spot okay so i don't know exactly
what to say or how to fix that i'm gonna
do my best right now and we'll see
whether it moves the needle in the right
direction or not
okay so the first thing that i want to
say is like i acknowledge that if people
think this is a problem
even though there are a lot of signs
that we're moving in the right direction
if you think it's a problem i'm just
going to accept that at face value and
if you all think it's a problem okay so
then the question becomes okay what are
we gonna do about it
so i'm just gonna share with y'all what
i have learned about the experience of
women
so understand that this has a couple of
caveats the first is that i'm not a
woman so i'm not ever going to truly
understand what it's like to be a woman
thankfully i've had a lot of experiences
so i have a profession in which it is my
job to try to understand people's
experiences that are different from what
i've
what my own
and so i'm going to share that with you
just so that i hope that
men out there
will like
hopefully understand like a little bit
of what i've learned
it's not my place to say that this is
right or wrong it's not my place to say
that you know that's i can't judge that
i'm just going to share what i've
learned
so
basically
before you're born
presuming you're not like a test tube
baby or something like that
your dad
has
testes and in these testes they produce
sperm
and sperm
are have either an x chromosome
or a y chromosome and then that sperm
travels to the egg which has an x
chromosome and then depending on whether
it gets fertilized by an x chromosome or
y chromosome you're [ __ ] in life
so if you get fertilized by the y
chromosome you start to play life i know
it sounds kind of weird and this is
going to be controversial we'll get to
this in a second
you start to play life on easy mode
and if you get fertilized with an x
chromosome you start to
uh get you start to life on hard mode
like it happens then like in the embryo
and then there's gonna be a lot of
people we're gonna get to this in a
second but what about all the
difficulties that men face so we'll talk
about that in a second and men do face a
lot of difficulties i think we've done a
good job of addressing those and
validating those we'll talk about that a
little bit more so if you reject that
statement that's totally fine just
listen till the end okay so you may
wonder like what do you mean dr k like
men commit suicide women commit suicide
like men struggle women's struggle like
how are like how are you able to say
that and this is where i'd say like go
back to the first thing that i said is
if people are telling you this even if
it goes against your experience maybe
that's a sign of a blind spot so here's
what i've learned so the first thing
people talk about circumcision now
circumcision is a problem right so like
sure circumcision is a problem but there
are literally parts of the world where
when women are born they will cut off
their clitoris
like this happens
right female genital mutilation like
circumcision sure i'm not saying that
circumcision isn't a problem as well but
they're like literally parts in the
world just think about that for a second
so like if you want to understand why
being a woman is on like being born a
woman is on hard mode it's like there's
maybe like a 10 chance that they're just
gonna lop off the end of your deck when
you're born
that is why it's hard mode this happens
right so there are lots of developing
countries where like you don't get to go
to school
you're told to wear particular things
you're forced into marrying particular
people you may be abused you may be
gang-raped like there are all kinds of
things that happen primarily like to
women right so this is a bad experience
to have
and people will say like okay that's
developing countries like what about the
women here
and so that's where i also say like it's
hard mode for them like that's been my
experience being married to a woman like
i think things are like harder for my
wife than they are for me and this is
where once again a lot of y'all may be
like uh simp cuck whatever
but just think about this for a second
okay
so here's what i think is hard being
like a modern woman which is that the
default responsibility is yours
and if you know what that means you know
what that means and if you don't know
what that means like that shows you the
problem
so what do i mean by that so it's like
if a dude so if i'm married for example
and i play dota for like four hours a
day at night
stuff still gets done
my kids will be put to get bed my kids
will be fed
they'll wake up the next day they'll
have clean clothes like stuff just gets
done
but the reason it gets done is because
it's the default responsibility of women
to take care of all that crap who does
pta meetings
right who who makes pediatrician
appointments and so as a man like i help
out around the house right so we say
help out which also like one person is
doing the helping and one person holds
the default responsibility you guys get
that it's even in the language that we
do
like we use like shows the dynamic
so i think the hardest thing one of the
hardest things about being a woman is
that the default responsibility falls to
you
now i i'm not saying that men out there
don't accept responsibility there are
default responsibilities that men have
as well so for example if there's a
clogged toilet like i take care of that
right the default like i just think in
my mind if there's a clogged toilet like
i have to take care of it
so there's a lot of default
responsibility that falls onto women
um
so like here's kind of another example
of
so i saw this post recently
we're gonna just you know i don't want
to get too much into it but
because i
so my husband is the moderator for a few
different subreddits and he genuinely
thinks it's his job
my husband refuses to look for a job
even though i think it would be good for
him
and we could use the additional income
but he says he's got too much on his
plate already
that being monitoring monitoring these
stupid subreddits every time i bring it
up he claims what he's doing is unpaid
lamers labor similar to that of a
homemaker but he doesn't cook or clean
or do any of that the way he used to he
just monitors his stupid subreddits i
don't know what to do sometimes i want
to leave him because i believe i may not
be able to reach him
so this is where
a lot of people will react
right and so what reactions are people
gonna have they're gonna be like that's
a bad
characterization of a man that not all
men are like this
that women do this too
i'm married or i my girlfriend sits
around and doesn't do anything all day
as well
so i want you guys to notice if your
mind had that reaction i want you to
notice what just happened
someone shared with you an experience
and the first thing that your mind did
is reject it and provide logic this is
the problem
right so if you guys want to understand
why misogyny exists this is the problem
it is because when someone speaks
your default mode is to reject them
this is the reasons you're wrong this
paints a bad light to men and all of
those things are logical i'm not saying
that it it paints men as deadbeats it
does that the question is is it [ __ ]
true
are these the experiences that this
group of people has experienced like is
this what they live through
is it a solo experience or a shared
experience why do you all think that had
78 000 upvotes
it's because that's a shared experience
so i'm not saying that any of the
criticisms or responses to that post are
invalid i think their chances are
they're all valid
and at the same time if your mind
defaults to rejecting someone else's
opinion just because you have some piece
of information that doesn't line up with
their experience that's the problem
that's the blind spot so start by
listening
the last thing that i want to do is
share with y'all a little bit of what
i've understood
about what being a woman is like okay
so generally speaking life can suck
right
we just talked about you know trauma and
school shootings and coping and stuff
like that so like what do we especially
on twitch and as gamers and things like
that what do we do when life sucks
we go play video games
here's the here's the worst thing is
like
women don't get to do that
freely
right so when you show up in a game and
you use voice chat
people either start hitting on you or
they
troll you or start insulting you
or tell you to go back into the kitchen
it's like the things that you should be
doing
to have fun suddenly have these random
people in it that are ruining your
experience
there's no escape so i saw a post like
just the other day about
some woman like ordered doordash and so
the dude knows her address shows up and
starts hitting on her when he's like
delivering food like what the [ __ ]
like
how is that fair like have you guys ever
been hit on by someone who's delivering
food it's not something that i even
think about
like when i get food deliveries i don't
worry about this person like
you know i don't have to worry about
feeling self-conscious
whether you go to the gym whether you
like go to like a coffee shop like
whether you play a video game
it's like there are gonna be people out
there that's like the vagina apocalypse
where it's like all these zombies out
there that are like vagina vagina vagina
and you just can't go anywhere without
like this [ __ ] happening to you and if
you want to understand what this is like
as a man this is what i'd say imagine
your mom was everywhere that every
person you ran into was your mom every
time you join a video game or you're in
a voice chat lobby your mom is there and
she's like have you taken out the
laundry
did you do your homework imagine that no
matter where you go
your mom is there you go to the coffee
shop you pick up a coffee your mom's
behind the counter and she's like hey
did you do the laundry
did you do your homework
and then you're like ah i hate this
you're walking down the street you
decide to go work out
your mom walks up to you and she's like
hey did you do the laundry
did you do your homework and you're like
[ __ ] hey leave me alone then you go
home and you're like i'm gonna play
games with my friends your mom hops into
discord and she's like hey
did you do your laundry did you do your
homework
there's no escape
wherever you go you log on to twitch
chat
and someone else like says something and
then your mom shows up in twitch chat
and she's like low noob did you do your
laundry did you do your homework
there's no escape
it sucks
i don't know like what to say besides
that
it's like everywhere you go like you're
getting aggroed by your mom
that's the closest analogy like is i've
tried to understand this because this
just hasn't happened to me
the closest analogy i can think of is it
sounds like these people are being
hounded by their moms like that's that's
what it feels like wherever you go it's
the same [ __ ] it's just zombies wanting
vagina like that's all they want it's
like you know that's just
and you can't escape it now to be clear
i don't want to say that the majority of
people are like this because there's
some interesting statistical stuff going
on here so for example like when when
women say all men are [ __ ] i don't
think all men are [ __ ] i don't think
the majority of men are [ __ ] i think
what happens is if you're a dude who's
an [ __ ]
you move around a lot more right so like
if you have like like let's say you have
10 women
and five dudes
like if four of the dudes are decent the
sh the [ __ ] is gonna move from
relationship to relationship
and then like eventually you're gonna
have like
you know all 10 women have dated an
[ __ ] and they ended up with like one
decent human being but like the sample
size is highly skewed by the fact that
[ __ ] move around
so it's not that the majority of men are
like this
it's just that like you know what
happens is some guy who shows up on the
discord server in his misogynistic there
and is an [ __ ] gets banned from
discord and then he shows up somewhere
else and he gets banned from the next
one he shows up somewhere else he gets
banned from the next one gets banned
from this chat gets banned from this
video game and so like the people who
are like you know getting banned are the
ones that are moving around and exposing
themselves to more people so i think
it's unfair for women to sort of assume
that most men or all men are like this
and at the same time i think like as a
dude you've got to be super careful
because you don't understand really what
their experience is like
and like the next time that you are in a
lobby
with a woman
like
and someone is mean to them just like
just tell
your mom to go [ __ ] off
right and then that person is going to
get mad at you too they're going to call
you a simp they're like oh soup it's
like no bro like i'm not a sim like you
can call me a simp if you want to it's
called being a decent human being maybe
that's being a simp okay fine whatever
and here's the next thing if you are
like nice to a woman online
don't friend them afterward just go on
your [ __ ] day
just
be nice to them stand up for them call
out [ __ ] where you see it and then don't
try to form a relationship
they don't owe you [ __ ] just that's the
end of it the best thing you can do is
just move on with your day there's just
another human being
you don't need to form anything you
don't need to emotionally support them
you don't need to like help them feel
validated you just need to be a decent
human being move on with your day
do you guys get that
because this is what happens like
there's the people the the dharma chats
right like i'mma make the world a better
place let me friend this person
and help them with all of the things
that they need help with
i shall force them i shall much like the
therapists who are pro post-traumatic
i'm gonna fix it and in doing so you
just make it worse
so being a decent human being does not
mean you need to form a relationship
it's like you know the next time you if
someone
drops their books
in your class
you just help them and you
go on with your day you don't expect
anything in return
that's it
right so just to kind of summarize about
misogyny so we address it a little bit
differently like i'm not a huge fan of
virtue signal signaling
like i just don't think it's effective
so i think a good example of this i
don't think people i remember having a
conversation about when trump won the
election in 2016.
and people being really shocked that by
this by the [ __ ] comment right i don't
can that get me banned if i say that
okay i won't say it again
but so you know our president i'm just
quoting the actual former president of
the united states here you know made a
comment about grabbing women by a
particular body part
and i think that like a lot of people
called him out on that but i think what
people don't understand is that he won
more votes than he lost
but but with that comment that attacking
that comment and the people who
resonated with that comment did not
change their mind it actually had the
opposite effect
so they're
i'm not saying i'm right here but this
is my justification or my reasoning
why i try like to not just attack
misogyny which there are a lot of people
out there attacking my sergeant i have
no problem with that like by all means
you all do your thing i'm gonna do my
thing
and at the same time like i think that
if you you know just to kind of
summarize like if someone is saying
something to you that does not fit that
you think is logically incorrect
understand that like your logic is not
better than theirs i mean it may be but
that doesn't you it could be a blind
spot right like you are not and it's
shocking you're not the arbiter of truth
so maybe try listening to other people
and like listen to what they say
and like pro tip like if you see
toxicity like maybe do something about
it
pro tip be aware of your own emotions
and recognize like what are you looking
for from this relationship
and what is like this person's
experience just be like a normal person
and just get on with your day
if they want to play a game like you
play a game that's totally fine you
don't have to like talk to them
afterward just
go about your business and let them go
about theirs
and if you want to understand why like
you know being a woman is living life on
hard mode
you know it starts with things like
genital mutilation
moves on to things like laundry and
things like this post
and then ends up with like even the
spaces that we as men use to chill and
relax
and
degeneracy like they don't get to do
like that sucks dude it's like being
hounded by your mom all the time
wherever you go same [ __ ] story
it's
i don't know how these people are still
saying on any level it's insane
you